The four main layers of the Polygon Blockchain architecture 🧬

1. Staking smart contracts on Ethereum
Polygon maintains a set of staking smart contract on the Ethereum Blockchain which handles the staking part of the
 PoS algorithm of Polygon which is the core.
Example: You put your money as a stake on the network to prove that you can be trusted, and in turn the network will reward you after a period of time if you are true to the network and will slash a percentage of the your stake if your conduct was against the network, this is how a basic PoS staking algorithm works.

2. Heimdall (Proof of Stake layer)
Now this is where it gets interesting, the proof-of-stake verifier layer. Known as Heimdall, it is in charge of checkpointing the 
plasma block representation to the Ethereum Mainnet. Tendermint is the model for Heimdall.Tendermint is a practical byzantine fault tolerance system which can tolerate up to 1/3 of your machine’s arbitrary failure which includes malicious behavior.The Heimdall node collaborates with the Ethereum Mainnet staking contract to serve as the trust-less stake management system for the PoS engine, which includes choosing the validator set, upgrading validators, etc. Since staking takes place in the Ethereum Mainnet contract, Polygon does not rely just on validator integrity but also inherits the security of the Ethereum Mainnet.
Heimdall will act as a manager for your company XY, managing the set of employees (validators) by choosing who would work for this period of time and reports to the parent company ABC (publishing the plasma block representation).

3. Bor (Block Producer Layer)
Bor is the layer of the Polygon block producer that is in charge of grouping transactions into blocks. At the Bor node, blocks are generated, and the sidechain VM is EVM-compatible. The Heimdall layer handles the aggregation of blocks produced by Bor into a Merkle Tree and publishes the Merkle root periodically to the Ethereum Mainnet. This periodic publishing is called checkpointing. The Merkle Tree hash is produced by periodically hashing the nodes until only one is left.
Bor is the employee of company XY who creates the product.
4. Checkpoint Mechanism
Since Polygon is a Layer-2 protocol hence it is dependant on the Ethereum Mainnet for its Layer 1 Settlement Layer. All staking mechanisms must be compatible with the Ethereum Mainnet's contracts.The checkpointing mechanism periodically publishes the checkpoint to the Ethereum Mainchain.The Matic protocol's checkpoints are its most important component. Before it is approved and uploaded on the contracts set up on Ethereum, it must be attested by ⅔ + 1 of the validator set, representing snapshots of the Bor chain state.So if I summarize the Checkpoint Mechanism:
A subset from the active validator pool is selected to act as block producer (Bor). This selection for each span needs to be consented by ⅔ + 1 in power and broadcast the production of block to the remaining participants of the network.
A checkpoint is basically the root of all the Merkle Tree blocks produced in this interval. All nodes will validate it and attach their signature to it.
A selected proposer from the validator set will collect all the signatures for that particular checkpoint and submit to the main chain.
the checkpoint is the balance sheet of transactions which is submitted by supposed employee A (proposer) selected from the active employees (active pool of validators). This balance sheet is verified by all the employees and employee A collects the signature from all other employees of company XY(validators of Polygon) and submits the balance sheet of transaction (checkpoint) attested with the signatures to the parent company (Ethereum Main Chain).

